# google-ddns
Google Domains Dynamic DNS Client

**Disclaimer: This is not affiliated with Google in any way other than the fact that it uses its API for updating domains.**

google-ddns is a simple to use Scala project that allows multiple hosts to be updated on Google Domains. It doesn't run in the background yet, though, so you'll have to add it to a cron job or something for it to be used at any frequency.

Building google-ddns
--------------------

google-ddns currently uses [sbt-assembly] (https://github.com/sbt/sbt-assembly) and sbt to build the executable jar.

To build, execute the following from the root directory:

```
sbt assembly
```

The assembly plugin should already be available if project/assembly.sbt (in the source code) exists. By default, this generates an executable jar named google-ddns.jar under the target\scala_2.11 directory, but it can be changed in build.sbt.

Usage
-----

You can execute the jar with the following command:

```
java -jar google-ddns.jar
```

In order to use the executable jar file, a file named hosts.json needs to be in the same directory as the jar file. Also, hosts.json needs to be configured with the following format:

```json
{
  "ip":"0.0.0.0",
  "hosts":[{
    "name":"subdomain.domain.tld",
    "username":"generated_username",
    "password":"generated_password",
    "status":"new"
  }]
}
```

The IP can be anything to start with because it will be replaced later.
The name is obviously the name of the domain to be updated.
The username and password are both generated by Google when set up in Google Domains.
The status should be set to `new` initially so google-ddns can recognize this as an unconfigured domain. If there are any errors updating, the response code will show up here as well as in the log file.
Also, multiple hosts can be added to the `hosts` array and they will all be updated.

Upon execution, a log file named dynamic-dns.log is generated with basic info and errors that might occur.

Anyway, this isn't the most sophisticated piece of software, but it gets the job done.
